[Documentation] a11y Markup Checklist (#558)
massgov/mayflower: patternlab/docs/a11y-checklist/links.md

[⬅️ a11y Checklist](a11y-checklist.md)

# Links `<a>`

## 📖 Definition

> **Links** let us navigate to *pages* or *locations within a page*. Either way, they’re typically underlined to stand out amongst prose content. Or they might reside in a special place like a header to help cognition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Links** let us navigate to *pages* or *locations within a page*. They’re typically underlined to stand out from the surrounding content. Or they might reside in a special place like a header to help cognition.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you're trying to say about adding a link in a header to help cognition. Can you explain?

> **Call to action buttons** are considered LINKS since they take you to another pages or locations within a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Call to action buttons** are considered LINKS since they take you to another page or location within a page.
```

> **🛑 Be careful for a use of a *link* vs. a *button*.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**🛑 It's important to distinguish between a *link* and a *button*.**
```

> **Link** has a *hand cursor*.  **[Button](buttons.md)** has a pointer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

  
Their roles are different. Browsers recognize and implement them *differently* with their unique characters.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Links** use a *hand cursor*.  **[Buttons](buttons.md)** use a pointer.
```

Reviewer: It would help here to explain a bit more about when to use a link vs. a button. Could you add an example of when a button would be correct?

---

> ## ➤➤ Does your link’s functionality fit above definition?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## ➤➤ Have you confirmed your link should be a link and not a button?
```

**➣ Yes:** [Move onto the link label. ⬇️](#link-label) 

> **➢ No:** Don't use `<a>`. Use `<button>` instead. Check your markup at the [Button section](buttons.md). ➡️

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➢ No:** Don't use `<a>`. Use `<button>` instead. Check your markup in the [Button section](buttons.md). ➡️
```

<a name="link-label"></a>
## Link label

> ### ➤➤ Is the link label text?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ➤➤ Is the link label text (not an image)?
```

> **➣ Yes:** Text [Go to the following question. ⬇️](#text)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➣ Yes:** Text [See the Text section below. ⬇️](#text)
```

> **➢ No:** Image [Go to the next question. ⬇️](#image)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➢ No:** Image [See the Image section below. ⬇️](#image)
```

> **➤ Yes/No:** Text + Image [Go to the next question. ⬇️](#text-image)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➤ Partially:** Text + Image [See the Text + Image section below. ⬇️](#text-image)
```

 
<a name="text"></a>
### Text 

> #### ➤➤ Is the label passed from field data such as node title or user input label?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### ➤➤ Is the label passed from field data such as the node title or a user input label?
```

<!-- TODO: Need more info as actionable items. -->
Not sure? Check the spec.

<!-- 
sample link label in the comp if the link takes you to a content page created by authors, or programmatically generated page. If it meets the first one, "Yes".
-->

**➣ Yes:**  You are all set. [Move on to next element](ally-checklist.md). ➡️

> **➢ No:**  It's defined in the template. [Go to the following question. ⬇️](#link-context)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➢ No:**  Is it defined in the template? [Go to the following question. ⬇️](#link-context)
```

<a name="link-context"></a> 

> ### ➤➤ Is the label text descriptive enough to see where it takes you without the *visual presentation* around the link? Is it clear enough to screen reader users?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ➤➤ Is the label text descriptive enough to explain where it takes you without the *visual presentation* around the link? Is it clear enough to screen reader users?
```

> 📋 A visual presentation such as a layout can provide non-verbal context to sighted users, which screen reader users cannot take advantage of. We fill the gap by providing context info as text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📋 A visual presentation such as a layout can provide non-verbal context to sighted users that screen reader users will miss. We fill the gap by providing context info as text.
```

**➣ Yes:** [Move on to next element. ➡️](a11y-checklist.md)

**➢ No:**  It’s not descriptive enough: 

> 🤔 "The *label text* of WHAT?" If you don't see the answer of the question in the label text(This sounds funny, but if you see below samples, it should make sense.), context info. is necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🤔 "Does the *label text* answer of/for/about WHAT?" If it doesn't, context info is necessary.
```

##### Case 1: Need supplemental information.

> It makes sense when you can see the entire section, but doesn't when you see just the label itself:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These labels may make sense when you can see the entire section, but they don't when you read just the label itself:
```

- More
- See all
- List all
- Show more
- Show less

> We need to provide the WHAT as context information. Use visually hidden text to add contextual info.
> 
> ##### Examples
> More`<span class=”ma--visually-hidden”>` contact information for the Department of Health office`</span>`
> 
> List all`<span class=”ma--visually-hidden”>` upcoming events at the Great Brook Farm State Park.`</span>`
> 
> Show more`<span class=”ma--visually-hidden”>` VA facilities in Essex county.`</span>`

##### Case 2: Adding contextual info as visually hidden text doesn't help:

> It needs supplemental information, but it doesn't make sense to add it as visually hidden text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it doesn't make sense to add contextual information as visually hidden text.
```

> The label doesn't make sense by itself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> "..." gets in a way in below sample since you cannot break it down to "Log in to" and "...". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the label below, the ellipsis ("...") gets in the way. 
```

- Log in to...

> 📋 Screen readers announce "...", ":", ";". Screen reader users hear the sample as "log in to dot dot dot".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📋 Screen readers announce the "..." as "dot dot dot".
```

> - Use `aria-label` to override the existing link label. 
> 

> > - Add any necessary context info as well. With above sample, the label could be "log in to *your account*". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Add any necessary context info as well. In the example above, the label could be "log in to *your account*". 
```

> 
> ```
> <a href="loginpage.html" aria-label="log in to your account.">Log in to...</a>
> ```
> 

> > 📋 When `aria-label` is used, screen readers ignores the content between `<a>` and `</a> `and announce `aria-label` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 📋 When `aria-label` is used, screen readers ignore the content between `<a>` and `</a> `and announce the `aria-label` value instead.
```

[Move on to next element. ➡️](a11y-checklist.md)

<a name="image"></a>
### Image

> #### ➤➤ Does the image have `alt` attribute?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### ➤➤ Does the image have an `alt` attribute?
```

**➣ Yes:** [Go to the following question. ⬇️](#alt)

> **➢ No:**  Add `alt` attribute. [Go to the following question. ⬇️](#alt)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➢ No:**  Add an `alt` attribute. [Go to the following question. ⬇️](#alt)
```

<a name="alt"></a>

> #### ➤➤ Does the `alt` attribute clearly tell where it takes you as the link label?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### ➤➤ Does the `alt` attribute clearly explain where the link takes you?
```

**➣ Yes:** You are all set. [Move on to next element. ➡️](a11y-checklist.md)

**➢ No:** The value is empty, or isn't descriptive enough. 

**🛑 In this case, `alt` shouldn't be empty.**

> > - Add descriptive `alt` value as the link label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Add a descriptive `alt` value as the link label.
```

> 
> - Add any necessary context info as well.
> 
> 📋 You might need to confirm with the UX or content team what would be proper for the label.

[Move on to next element. ➡️](a11y-checklist.md)

<a name="text-image"></a>
### Text and Image

> #### ➤➤ Do the text and the image both describe the same thing(= they have duplicate information)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### ➤➤ Do the text and the image both convey the same information?
```

> **➣ Yes:** Both information is same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➣ Yes:** Information is the same.
```

> Respect the text over the image. Empty the image’s `alt` value.

> > The image is presented as a decorative purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The image serves a decorative purpose.
```

**🛑 Keep `alt` attribute even its value is empty.**

```<img src="image.jpg" alt="" />```

> 📋 If `<img>` doesn't have `alt` attribute, screen readers try to provide any other available information for the image and announce `src` value, which is not only not helpful, but also unpleasant to screen reader users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📋 If `<img>` doesn't have `alt` attribute, screen readers often announce the `src` value, which is not only not helpful, but also unpleasant to screen reader users. An empty alt tag prevents this.
```

> When the `alt` value is empty, screen readers know it is *purposely* empty, and don't try to deliver any other information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `alt` value is empty, screen readers know it is *deliberately* empty, and don't try to deliver any other information.
```

[Move on to next element. ➡️](a11y-checklist.md)

> **➢ No [Case 1]:** The text and the image provide unique information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➢ No [Case 1]:** The text and the image provide different information.
```

> > - Add `alt` value to provide the information the image delivers. For example, if the image is an icon, what the icon signifies such as PDF as a file format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Add an `alt` value to provide the information the image delivers. For example, if the image is an icon, describe what the icon signifies, such as PDF as a file format.
```

> 

> > - As a link label, make sure the flow of *both information together* makes sense to screen reader users:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Make sure the flow of *both text and image together* makes sense to screen reader users:
```

> 		
>    - “Img alt value + label text”, or 
> 	  - “label text + img alt value” 
>  

> > 	flows naturally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 
> - If they don't flow well together, 

> >     - add contextual text info as visually hidden text, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>     - add contextual text info as visually hidden text:
```

> 
>		```
> 		<a href="loginpage.html">
> 			<img src="icon_pdf.png" alt="PDF" />
> 			<span class="ma--visually-hidden"> format of </span>
>  			Camp site reservation request form
> 		</a>
>		```
>
>		"PDF format of Campsite reservation request form"

> >     - override them with `aria-label`, empty the `alt` value for cleaner markup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>     - or override them with `aria-label`, and empty the `alt` value for cleaner markup.
```

> 
>		```
> 		<a href="loginpage.html" aria-label="Screen readers announce this.">
> 			Screen readers ignore anything goes here.

> > 			<img src="image.png" alt="this is ignored, but empty out for cleaner markup." />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 			<img src="image.png" alt="this is ignored, but leave empty for cleaner markup." />
```

> 		</a>
>		```
>
> 		"Screen readers announce this."
> 

> > 📋 When `aria-label` is used, screen readers ignore the content between `<a>` and `</a> `and announce `aria-label` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 📋 When `aria-label` is used, screen readers ignore the content between `<a>` and `</a> `and announce the `aria-label` value.
```

> **➢ No [Case 2]:** Text has enough information as the label. Image has no information to deliver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**➢ No [Case 2]:** Text is sufficient as the label. Image has no additional information.
```

- decorative icons
- decorative images

> > - Leave the `alt` value blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Use an empty `alt` value.
```
